Welcome to `rainbowmaker`
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

*Chroma* and *graphia* are the Greek words for color and for writing,
drawing or describing. In the early days of liquid chromatography a
piece of paper was used to separate different dye components in
mixtures. The presence of different components was evidenced by
different color bands in the paper. Ultra High Performance Liquid
Chromatography (UHPLC) coupled with a Photo Diode Array (PDA) detector
is a modern liquid chromatography technique that can be used to separate
and identify different components in dyes and other samples. In
comparison to the historic technique of paper chromatography however, it
is not obvious how to extract the color properties of dye components as
these are hidden somewhere in the UHPLC-PDA chromatogram and absorbance
spectra.

<figure>
<img src="images/from-absorbances-to-colors.png" style="width:80.0%"
alt="From absorbances to colors" />
<figcaption aria-hidden="true">From absorbances to colors</figcaption>
</figure>

In our lab(the Rijkserfgoedlaboratorium in Amsterdam) we study historic
dyes and their precise colors are of primary importance. `Rainbowmaker`
is an open source Python package based on color physics that can be used
to compute dilution colors for individual dye components and mixtures
from UHPLC-PDA data.

This package is developed out in the open. If you are interested you can
follow our ideas under construction in this documentation and already
try out the Jupyter
[notebooks](https://github.com/fligt/rainbowmaker/tree/master/notebooks)
in this repository. Our goal is to make the package available for
installation soonâ€¦

Frank Ligterink and Sanne Berbers

See [link](https://fligt.github.io/rainbowmaker/) to documentation.
